[Music]
eleven things happy couples do before
they go to sleep what is vital for a
happy relationship of a couple the first
and foremost it is important to spend
some time with your partner before you
go to sleep it doesn't matter how much
time you have to be together an hour or
just a few minutes if it is just the two
of you enjoying each other's company
talking and showing your love that is
all you need so how to strengthen the
connection between your partner and you
how to make sure that your relationship
stays as warm as it was at the very dawn
of your partnership here are eleven but
very effective recommendations from
well-known psychologists they speak
about how to behave or which actions to
avoid toward your partner before calling
it a night 11 switch your phones to
silent mode and put them away
social media dependency suppresses the
release of oxytocin or as it is also
called the love hormone in your body to
bed as this hormone is exactly what's
responsible for emotional intimacy and
bonding also it ensures the trust
partners have in each other
psychotherapist Carol Carey advises to
follow a simple rule turn off your
phones or put them away at 9:00 p.m. on
the dot 10 forget about work
try to forget about work and stop
checking your work email when you're in
bed it's so much better to spend that
time together and have some rest so that
you can be productive at work the
following days pillow top connects
couples emotionally helps you to get
distracted from problems and makes you
feel relaxed avoid talking about work
financial troubles or anything else that
can make your partner feel worried 9 go
to bed at the same time as your partner
many people in a relationship don't see
each other all day long and have a habit
of going to bed at different times as
many as 75 percent of couples do this on
a regular basis typically because one of
the partners works watches TV or serves
the net seems like not a big deal but
according to psychologist Kurt Smith
happy couples brush their teeth together
and go to bed at the same time it helps
them to maintain the warmth and intimacy
of their relationship 8 follow a routine
following the same bedtime routine every
day helps you to sleep better while
following a familiar routine your brain
receives a signal of the approaching
bedtime and prepares your body for sleep
if you follow this same routine together
with your partner it will make your
relationship more intimate and
trustworthy 7 have a heart-to-heart talk
pay attention to each other's feelings
you don't need to give advice or find
immediate solutions to the problems
sometimes we simply want to talk and
feel the care and support of our loved
ones psychologist Ryan house suggests
dedicating a few minutes before going to
sleep to express warm feelings towards
your partner this will help to end the
day on a positive note and make you feel
better it also has a positive influence
on your overall mood it has been
scientifically proven that when you
sincerely express your gratitude to the
person you love it provokes an immediate
spike of your feelings of happiness try
to forget about everything that happened
that day and leave all of your problems
and concerns outside the bedroom door
tell your partner how much you love them
it is important to be serious and
sincere when you express your feelings 6
don't argue
or get into heated conversations this
advice is given by people who have been
married for 40 to 50 years and more
their experience tells them that no
disagreement is worth more than a day's
fight Kurt Smith reminds us to try to
not involve ourselves in heated
arguments before going to sleep fighting
in bed never helps to solve a problem on
top of that it's harder for both of you
to fall asleep and you will feel
depressed the next day 5 keep your
bedroom child's free another
psychologist Michael Viner Davis is sure
that the only time you can let your
children sleep in your bed is when they
have a nightmare
at all other times your bedroom should
be your private space you need to have
that space for the two of you to
maintain your intimacy what is more it
has been proven that sleeping with
children deteriorates the quality of
your rest and human stance sleep
deprivation much worse than food
deprivation 4 don't share the bed with
your pets as reported in their research
of the University of Kansas 63% of
people who sleep with their pets don't
get enough sleep
your pet can't be asleep through the
whole night and often disturbs your rest
for example two-thirds of their lives
cats spend sleeping no wonder they don't
feel such an urgent need to do it at
night as you do on top of that having a
pet in your bed violates the rule of two
in your bedroom 3 don't drink alcohol or
smoke
many couples like to have a glass of
wine before going to bed to create a
romantic atmosphere however while your
body is digesting alcohol the
restorative period of your sleep becomes
shorter 27 studies on the topic have
shown that alcohol makes the period we
need to fall asleep shorter in the
duration of deep sleep longer wonderful
you might say well not really the second
half of the night of a person who has
drunk some alcohol before going to bed
is full of a restless disturbed sleep
that makes you feel tired distracted and
easily annoyed when you wake up in the
morning alcohol also makes snoring more
likely and as for nicotine and
cigarettes it's a known fact that it
promotes insomnia
what is more smokers tend to wake up
more often during the night it is bound
to affect your partner and their restful
sleep to give each other a massage
specialists from the National foundation
of sleep confirm that a light relaxing
massage before going to bed is highly
beneficial it improves the quality of
your sleep reduces anxiety and brings
couples closer together in fact research
has been conducted by the scientists at
Northumbria University 19 couples took a
three week course of massage after
completing it
91% of participants were eager to
recommend this type of mutual treatment
to relatives and friends 74% were going
to turn such massage sessions into their
daily routine the most interesting
though is the fact that emotional state
as well as physical well-being improved
relating both for the partners who
received the massage and the one who
gave it one don't forget about hugs and
kisses
[Music]
remember to kiss your partner before
going to sleep as well as to cuddle for
a few minutes when you're already in bed
kissing always evokes positive emotions
psychologists are confident that if you
hug when falling asleep your
relationship is not in trouble
David Clow a family therapist advises
the couples that have issues with
communication to hug each other it
allows the partners to feel that their
better half understands them even if
they can't express their feelings with
words and at the very least even a 10
second hug is powerful enough to make
your health better it helps your body to
overcome infections improves your immune
system reduces stress heat eliminates
depression and now here are our bonus
tricks on how to fight insomnia if you
suffer from insomnia try to make a few
changes to your lifestyle don't drink
coffee after about three to four pm wake
up earlier don't snack before going to
bed
buy some beautiful and expensive bedding
it will help you to fall asleep faster
don't nap on the weekends we've all
gadgets outside your bedroom door let
some fresh air into your room take a hot
bath before going to bed try not to work
after 9 p.m.
don't drink too much water before going
to sleep here you go after implementing
these recommendations in your everyday
life you are bound to sleep like a baby
how do you make sure your partner feels
loved and understood what is necessary
for an evening routine in your opinion
don't be shy share your ideas in the
comments below
by the way if this video gathers 60,000
likes we will tell you about the
pitfalls of new relationships and how to
avoid them so remember to hit the like
button and if you want to be aware of
the new findings from psychology science
and many other fields subscribe to our
Channel
you